---
layout: post
title: Object.keys( )
tags:
- Harrison Hadaway
---

# in class project1

### **prelude.**
##### *an action or event serving as an introduction to something more important.*

I arrived Friday morning to class here at Awesome Inc feeling confident that it was going to be a wonderful Friday of utilizing what we had learned the two previous weeks. I had practiced the day before on doing Heroku deployments using node.js with an express server. Our requirements were sent to us at 8am and we had until 5pm to complete the project. Quickly, I read through the requirements, fired up my mac, pulled out a notepad, and started thinking through how I was going to lay out this project. 

### **setup.**
##### *the way in which something is organized, planned, or arranged.*

The server setup was a breeze thanks to my preparation the previous day. I had the basic shell of the project built utilizing bootstrap. I went ahead and setup my git, GitHub repository, and the Heroku set up to be able to deploy the static site. It was almost 9:30 am all I had left off of the requirements list was to manipulate a JSON file using vanilla javascript. At this moment, I was confident and happy with my progress. 

### **javascript**
##### *an object-oriented computer programming language commonly used to create interactive effects within web browsers.*

I knew ahead of time that the javascript aspect of the project would be my biggest challenge of the day. I started out doing some basic functions to test that I could input into the HTML file from my javascript file. The testing was successful then I moved into manipulating the data provided. I spent the majority of my day attempting to access the information inside of the JSON file. I searched for everything imaginable online trying to find the javascript method to solve this riddle... I was unsuccessful in that moment. I felt so defeated in that moment.

### **Object.keys( )**
##### *method returns an array of a given object's own enumerable properties, in the same order as that provided by a for...in loop.*
If there is one thing I can promise from my 3 month bootcamp, it is that I will never forget the javascript method Object.keys(). Object.keys() was the one missing link I could not find on that project day that left me feeling defeated. I would like to thank Object.keys() for letting me experience that first major feeling of defeat in web development. I learned alot about my self-learning thinking process in that moment of defeat. 
